♪
Previously on
Star Trek: Discovery...
- Where are we?
- Not where. When.
RAYNER:
It's a time bug--
they're designed
to paralyze an enemy's ship
by randomly cycling them
through time.
The whole point is
to keep us stuck.
This has to be Moll and L'ak.
So, they know
exactly where we are
and where the next clue is.
And once we're ahead
of Discovery,
we can get the next clue
and the next.
We've got this.
We are gonna find
the Progenitors' tech.
No more running
and no more bounty on our heads.
- We'll be free.
- Free sounds good.
ZORA:
The outcome you feared
came to pass.
Is that ship Breen?
Yes. Somehow they got
the Progenitors' technology.
They must have been
Moll and L'ak's highest bidders.
That's Moll.
She's the daughter of my mentor
Cleveland Booker IV,
which, I suppose,
makes her the closest thing
to family I've got left.
[sighs]
We are back to the present.
We've only lost six hours.
The past hasn't been altered.
We did it.
Let's figure out what's changed
in the last six hours.
Can the DOTs tell us anything?
They did find something,
Captain-- a warp signature.
It matches
with L'ak and Moll's ship.
Where are Moll and L'ak now?
That's the strange thing.
Their trail disappears.
Like they came here
and now they're just gone.
Wherever they are,
that's where the next clue is,
and these are
the right coordinates,
so it's a mystery indeed.
Then let's get to solving it.
BOOK:
Personal log, Cleveland Booker.
Stardate 866282.9.
My mentor-- the man who gave me
my name, my new life--
he used to say,
"No matter how bad things get,
the one thing
you always have is a choice."
I'd be lying if I said I hadn't
made some questionable ones.
[Grudge meows]
But I've made
some good ones, too.
Which is how I know
it's not too late
for his daughter.
If I can turn things around,
so can she.
Cleveland showed me
how things could be,
who I could be.
And I suppose,
just in doing that,
he saved me.
I owe it to him
to do the same for her.
Today... I may get my chance.
We're at
their last known coordinates.
Seems like
we're about to find them.
All right, Commander Stamets,
Lieutenant Tilly,
- it's all you.
- Thank you, Captain.
When we arrived here at
the coordinates Jinaal gave us,
it seemed there was nothing
but a disperse nebula
and a warp trail
from Moll and L'ak
that disappeared
into empty space.
Emphasis on "seemed."
Now we have a pretty good idea
of where they went.
Zora, adjust the viewscreen
to compensate
for the Lorentzian coefficient
and high-energy spectra.
ZORA:
Of course, Lieutenant.
What is that?
That is a wormhole... of sorts.
We just couldn't see it
until we recalibrated our scans.
We believe it leads to a pocket
of interdimensional space.
The opening
is collapsing and expanding
due to matter-antimatter
chain reactions,
likely caused by the Burn.
That's what we have to pass
through to get to the next clue.
And based on the trajectory
of the warp trail,
Moll and L'ak should be
in there as well.
Nice work, both of you.
Thank you.
Lieutenant Gallo,
what are scans telling us?
GALLO:
Not much. That aperture
is scrambling my readings.
We won't know
what we're dealing with
- until we're on the other side.
- Discovery is too big
to get through.
It'd have to be a shuttle.
Lieutenant Christopher,
will you be able
to maintain comms contact?
I'll do my best, but not knowing
what's inside there,
I can't guarantee it.
Okay, Lieutenant Linus,
prepare a shuttle.
Tell Engineering to boost comms
and fortify shields.
And, Commander Rhys,
have a security team on standby.
I'll go
and I'll bring Book with me.
Commander Rayner,
you have the conn.
Captain Burnham?
A word?
With respect,
it's too risky a mission
for the ship's captain.
Let me take it.
I appreciate the suggestion,
but I need you here on the ship.
Well, at least take
a security team.
Our advantage is Book's
personal connection to Moll.
We bring in a security team,
the implied threat nullifies
that advantage.
I feel the same responsibility
you do.
We both saw a future
where the Breen
destroyed everything,
but that's only
one possible future.
You can't let that cloud
your tactical judgment.
This decision is tactical.
So... what's this really
about for you?
You have permission to be blunt.
As they say
in the Ballad of Krul,
"Serve it
without a grum of osikod."
That is a...
classic work on Kellerun.
I did my research
on your culture,
just like you did on mine.
- So, without "osikod..."
- Nothing to report.
I'm just doing my job.
Part of that is to protect you.
When's the last time you took
the conn from another captain?
Couldn't say. Been a while.
Look, we haven't worked together
very long.
We have different styles,
but I wouldn't want
to disadvantage any mission,
especially not one
this important.
I know you can lead this crew,
Commander.
I believe in you.
You have your orders.
BOOK:
Ship feels good.
Purring like Grudge
when she's killed something.
What do you think you'll say
to Moll if we find them?
Don't know.
Maybe we're not so different.
Me and her, us and them.
Former couriers.
That sort of thing.
Cleveland, of course.
I think I can reach her.
We'll need
to bring them in, either way.
Sounds like
that time bug of theirs
was a real pain in the ass.
Come on.
You must have had some fun
with it,
knowing exactly
what was going to happen.
There were still some surprises.
Closing in on the aperture.
Need to increase our speed.
We're not gonna make it
through the opening in time
at this rate.
Even if I gunned it, we could
still get caught in that thing.
There's a "but" in there,
I hope?
But as soon as I finish charging
the impulse capacitant cells,
I can release them
into the drive coils.
That'll give us a boost.
Just don't burn out our engines.
We still have to get back.
There's an old Kwejian saying.
"Never return from a hunt
without enough bait
for the Carrion Reaver."
It's catchy.
[Book laughs]
BOOK: Okay, we have
to time this perfectly.
- Got the cycles on lock.
- On your mark.
Discovery, we're heading in.
RAYNER [over comm]:
Aye, Captain. Standing by.
Ready? In three,
two, one.
Go.
[alarm blaring]
How are we doing, Book?
BOOK:
It'll be close. Hang on.
[groans]
Captain, are you okay?
Did you make it in safely?
BURNHAM [choppy]:
We're okay. We made it.
Picking up some interference,
though.
RAYNER:
Captain?
- Lieutenant Christopher?
- Trying to get her back, sir.
Cycling through all frequencies.
Commander Stamets
to the science lab.
I need you to boost comms.
Bring whoever you need.
STAMETS [over comm]:
On my way.
Eyes up, everyone.
Captain's counting on us.
Yellow alert.
Visibility's shit in here.
It's exotic matter of some kind.
It's wreaking havoc
on our sensors.
And our holopadds.
Flying deaf and blind.
[laughs]
Good times.
- Book, watch out.
- Hang on.
BURNHAM:
Debris is not a good sign.
That's Moll and L'ak's ship.
BURNHAM:
Half of it anyway.
The aperture
must have caught the stern
when they were passing through.
You think they made it?
Maybe.
If they made it into that...
BOOK:
ISS.
That's Mirror Universe.
How did it end up
in interdimensional space?
I don't know.
It's got to be one hell
of a story.
♪
[original Star Trek theme
plays]
BOOK:
Fair amount of damage.
Looks like it got trapped here
during a battle.
BURNHAM:
Had to have been ages ago.
Crossing between universes has
been impossible for centuries.
So why hide the clue in here?
Shipwreck in a hidden wormhole?
Sounds pretty secure to me.
You know anything
about this ship?
Oh, I only know
the USS Enterprise.
I've never encountered
the Terran version.
Internal layout and systems
should be roughly the same.
Over there.
The rest
of Moll and L'ak's ship.
BURNHAM:
If they're still alive,
they are gonna be desperate.
I'll find us a place to dock.
Hey, uh, sorry.
I need to get into
an EPS panel right there.
Oh. Have at it.
You working on comms?
Yeah. I'm helping
Adira and Paul.
We're trying to boost the signal
by pulling power
from the EPS grid.
And I've followed this conduit
for three decks, including
the quarters of a new ensign
who's very nice
but keeps a Cardassian vole
as a pet. Anyhow...
I have some work to do
in my office.
Um... I'll leave you to it.
Hey, is everything okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
Okay. Well, you're always there
for everyone else,
so if you ever need
to talk about anything...
Yeah, well...
STAMETS:
Tilly, what's your status?
- Working as fast as I can.
- CULBER: I'm fine.
I'll find you later. I'm fine.
STAMETS:
Well, Rayner's asking
for updates, so, uh,
as soon as you have
any good news, let us know.
- We'll be standing by.
- TILLY: Okay. Will do.
What about
the, uh, graviton-pulse idea?
Yeah, I'm just rechecking
my calculations.
You've done that twice already.
Just want to be sure.
Adira.
The time bug wasn't your fault.
Yeah, well, I brought it
on board, didn't I?
Fix the problem yet?
Um,
Lieutenant Tilly's attempting
to boost the comms signal,
but interference from the
aperture's rapid shuttering...
I don't need to know how
the cake is boiled, Commander.
Kellerun boil their cakes?
Don't knock it till you try it.
Other options,
one sentence or less.
Well, um, we need to find a way
to hold the aperture open.
Then do it.
Not that simple, I get it.
Go on, more words.
We could use
the shield generator
to disrupt
the antimatter reactions,
but the power drain could result
in shorting out
of basic systems, like comms,
which would defeat the purpose.
A graviton pulse would also
do it, but there is a, uh,
43.7% chance of implosion,
meaning that the aperture
would shut forever,
with the captain and Booker
still inside, so we...
We're just... we're trying
to improve those odds, so...
Sir, if I could quote something
you told me recently,
"You're not in this alone."
Sounded better
when you said it.
Find another way
to get comms back, and fast.
If they haven't run
into Moll and L'ak already,
they will soon enough.
And who knows
what kind of mess that'll be?
Holopadds are useless
in here, too.
Uh, we can use
the ship's sensors
to track quantum signatures
from our universe.
That'll help us find the clue
and Moll and L'ak,
if they're here.
You remember the access codes
from your Terran counterpart?
Already there.
Not working.
She must have been dead by the
time the Enterprise got here.
We'll have
to find another way in.
Well, I once hacked
an Andorian transport ship
using a subroutine dodge
through backup logs.
I thought it sounded
rather impressive, myself.
Sorry.
Oh, that was
my brother's station
on the USS Enterprise.
Ever meet the Terran version?
No.
But I'm sure he was just as
ruthless as the rest, though.
[console beeps]
Your hack worked. We're in.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure
you meant to say,
"Book, your idea was amazing.
- You are a hero among men."
- A hero among men.
- Huh. That's weird.
- What?
The intermix chamber was ejected
from the warp drive.
Shuttles and escape pods gone, too.
Captain's logs erased.
Crew abandoned ship.
Evacuation is a last resort
in Terran culture.
Enterprise took some damage,
but it wasn't terminal.
Definitely some sort
of story there.
- Indeed.
- So what's the verdict?
Were you able to find them?
Two signatures on the bridge.
That's us.
Three in sickbay.
That's Moll, L'ak and the clue.
They found it.
Let's get it.
BOOK:
Any idea where they found
the clue in the first place?
BURNHAM:
I saw a trace signature
in the transporter room.
It had to have been there.
BOOK:
Scientists would have
put it there for a reason.
BURNHAM:
Let's check it out.
Bedding, blankets,
kids' clothes?
Not what I would expect
to see on a warship.
Why would someone want us
to see this?
"Light of hope shines
through even the darkest
of nights."
It's the crew's story.
Terran High Chancellor
was killed for trying
to make reforms,
and this crew escaped.
They mutinied.
Brought refugees with them,
who were trying to flee
their universe for ours.
It says...
a Kelpien slave, turned
rebel leader, helped them.
Saru.
Action Saru in any universe.
Well, it's got to be why
the escape pods
and shuttles are gone.
They fled the Enterprise
once it got stuck here.
I hope they made it.
Yeah.
Me, too.
Let's keep moving.
BURNHAM:
Sickbay's over here.
Ready?
Holo doubles.
Clever. Now we won't know
where to shoot.
They must've hacked the room's
holo emitter,
but if we can find it...
BURNHAM:
Got it. Up there.
But I can't hit it
from this angle.
Yeah, two out of the ten blasts
will be real.
I've had worse odds.
Got it.
- Come on.
- Okay.
- [gasps]
- Go!
[weapons firing]
Could have just said "Hello."
You could have just left us
the hell alone.
Lower your phasers.
Let's talk.
You were the ones
who came in firing.
Just at the holo emitter.
Yeah, or your aim's shit.
Your ship is in pieces.
Surrender to us now, let us
get you out of here safely.
[quietly]:
Hey, cover me.
Hey.
Easy.
Okay?
Look, we're here to help.
Moll,
- I knew your father.
- [scoffs]
And that's supposed
to make me trust you?
No, but I know the kind
of man he was.
Cleveland Booker was garbage.
And we are not going
to rot in a Federation brig.
You'll get a fair trial.
You do not have
another play here.
Wrong. You may have a shuttle.
We have the clue.
MOLL:
The way I see it, we can
blast away at each other--
probably all end up dead-- or
you give us a ride out of here,
let us go,
and we let you replicate that.
Tempting,
but that's not the clue.
Remember Lyrek?
Decoy stanzas,
the real clue hidden
somewhere else.
They all look different.
Go ahead.
Use that tricorder there.
Calibrate it to scan for quantum
signatures from our universe.
It's the real deal.
BOOK:
We can you get out of here.
All of us.
Whatever trouble you're in...
- You don't know us.
- I know you wouldn't
risk each other's
- lives over latinum...
- Shut up, I said
shut the hell up!
Which means
you must be in real trouble.
Hey, the Federation
can help you!
- Can they erase an Erigah?
- Moll.
No? So stop pretending
like you can do a damn thing!
- Moll!
- What?!
Erigah? You're Breen?
[sighs]
An Erigah is
a Breen blood bounty.
They're after you, aren't they?
That's why you're here.
You hope you can use whatever's
at the end of that clue trail
to get them to release it.
BOOK:
Moll.
What did you do?
MOLL:
I know I'm new around here, but
how much longer are you
bucket-heads gonna make me wait?
Got other deliveries to do.
[speaks Breen]
Am I supposed to be trembling
at this point?
[speaks Breen]
[speaking Breen]
You must be the one
who wanted to talk to me.
Hi. I'm Moll.
I like latinum
and long walks on the beach.
What do you need?
L'AK:
Be silent, courier.
We've had reports
your dilithium's been cut
with impurities.
I need to inspect.
[laughs softly]
Not my deliveries, green eye.
Inspection was not a request.
I've met Bolians
with meaner left hooks.
[both grunting]
No.
You know,
I've learned a thing or two
about Breen insignia.
This one means royalty.
Rumor has it
the Primarch's nephew doesn't
fit the mold around here,
has been demoted
to shuttle bay duty.
That's you, isn't it? L'ak.
[grunts]
Must be so humiliating.
What if I said...
I could help you get payback?
You are cutting the dilithium.
Look, I'm good at what I do.
Great, actually.
Having a partner on the inside
would make it all go
a lot smoother.
I should kill you
for the suggestion.
But you didn't,
which means you're intrigued.
I know
what it's like
to be on the outside, alone.
Makes you hungry.
- Also...
- [click]
...makes you smart.
[footsteps approaching]
Like I said...
smart.
You sure
you want to make a deal?
You don't know anything
about me.
Not much.
Not yet, anyway.
Whatever we did...
...is none
of your damn business.
Love is a powerful thing.
Do not let it
take you down the wrong road.
You both still have choices.
You always have choices.
You're right.
We do.
Damn it.
[grunts]
Moll!
COMPUTER:
System failure.
Sickbay lockdown engaged.
BOOK:
The control panel.
It's fried.
I can't get back in.
There should be
security controls on the bridge.
BOOK:
Moll?
I could use
an extra pair of hands.
We both want the same thing,
don't we?
To get them out.
[sighs]
One wrong move,
and I will dust you.
Hmm?
Dilithium's clean.
You're free to go.
Sure you don't want
to check my ship again?
Make sure that I didn't smuggle
any tribbles on board?
I wish I could.
My uncle is coming down
for inspection,
and I need to shine my boots.
Is that a euphemism?
No. He just really likes
our boots to be shiny.
- Oh, sounds like an asshole.
- [laughs]
You have no idea.
Oh, green eye,
you made me a promise.
I'll show you next week.
Yes, that is
what you said last week.
[footsteps approaching]
Don't argue with me.
We pay what we pay.
You don't like it,
we'll find a courier who does.
Another time, I promise.
Come on.
Show me what you look like.
You've seen my face.
Okay, the other face.
L'ak?
It's just...
It...
It's not... me.
Okay.
But it's...
it's a part of you, right?
Both faces are.
You've seen parts of me
that I hate.
[L'ak sighs]
Hello, L'ak.
Soon as I figure out a way
to bring down the containment
field, this truce is over.
I really do want
to help you, okay?
Says the man
who took my father's name.
Look, I know
he left you and your mother.
I also know that staying away
was the hardest choice
he ever had to make.
But he did it to protect you.
You know, from a dangerous life.
He didn't want it blowing back.
And you bought that?
[laughs]
Let me guess. Daddy issues.
He promised
to get us off Callor Five,
take us to some safe-haven
colony in the Gamma Quadrant.
Described it in perfect detail.
Absolute paradise.
Every night I'd go to sleep
thinking about it.
Then one day,
he just stopped coming home.
My mom had to get a job
in the rubindium mines.
You have any idea
what that's like?
She died when I was 14, and...
I was left completely alone.
I don't think
he knew any of that.
Maybe he did, maybe he didn't.
He's dead now.
And L'ak is the only thing
that matters to me.
Exhausting, huh?
Staring each other down.
What can I say?
I don't trust you.
Do you even know
what you're after?
What all these clues lead to?
"Power beyond
all comprehension,"
is what the diary said.
I don't care, as long as
it can end an Erigah.
If the Breen got ahold
of that power,
it would be catastrophic.
- You have to know that.
- We'll be long gone by then.
Not unless they take it from you
and kill you anyway.
Do you really trust them
more than you trust us?
L'ak, the Federation is all
about second chances.
Book and I are both
living proof of that.
[inhales]
If we did come in,
if we served our time-- if--
would we serve it together?
I can advocate for that.
Because I would rather die
than be separated from her.
I get that. I do.
[electronic chirping]
MOLL: I can't access
the containment field.
You said you wanted to help.
Help.
I'm trying.
The security system's
firewalled.
Antique piece of shit!
[pounds console]
I loved her, you know.
Michael.
Captain "Put Down Your Phasers"?
Yeah, I really see the appeal.
We were couriers,
like you and L'ak.
I understand it--
depending on someone like that,
knowing they're all you've got.
You know, she was my first real
friend after Cleveland died.
Unless you count Grudge.
But she bites
when I don't feed her,
so, it's a bit one-sided.
He talked about you a lot--
Cleveland.
And the look in his eyes
when he did...
For what it's worth,
he loved you.
But I'm sorry for what you
went through because of him.
I hated my father, too.
For a long time, so...
[electronic chirping]
It's not working.
I need to get back to L'ak.
You better go before
the morning shift gets here.
What?
I've got new contracts
in Emerald Chain territory.
Okay.
So...
I'm going.
For how long?
I don't know.
Why there?
Osyraa's a butcher.
Well, Imperium space
isn't much safer
with all your faction wars.
Plus the contracts are better.
If it's about latinum,
we can change our deal.
I still won't be making enough.
You never even told me
what's so damn important.
What do you need
so much latinum for anyway?
There's a colony
in the Gamma quadrant.
A place where I could just
wake up every day and...
be.
No more courier runs,
no more watching my back.
Peace, freedom.
You know?
No.
I don't.
Why do you stay here?
You hate it.
Where would I go?
Come with me.
Just you and me.
[footsteps approaching]
MOLL:
Is that...?
My uncle.
Breen Primarch
of the sixth flight.
I'm done waiting.
What are you doing?
Creating a power surge.
It'll burn through
the security system.
Short out the containment field.
Could do a lot more
to a ship this old.
Look, wait,
let me just check the--
- MOLL: Shit!
- BOOK: Look out!
Moll.
No, no, no, no, no! Wait.
- L'ak, wait.
- Get...
out of my way.
[explosion]
[grunting]
[both grunting]
Impulse engines are overloaded.
Nav systems are fried.
We have no control
over the ship?
BOOK:
Our shuttle.
And that was our only way off.
COMPUTER: Warning,
impact in eight minutes.
BOOK: Okay, we've got eight
minutes to figure a way out.
We need to go get
Michael and L'ak.
You're staying here.
I'm getting L'ak.
And we will figure
something out ourselves.
No.
You want to hate me, fine.
I will not let
anything happen to Michael.
Or you.
Why?
Enough with
the Cleveland Booker shit.
Why me?
Because I'm Kwejian.
Everything I cared about
out there is gone.
And he may have been...
a shit dad to you,
but he was a great mentor to me.
And like it or not,
that makes you...
...just about the only family
I've got left.
I could kill you right now.
That's a choice.
I hope you'll make
a different one.
Let's go.
[grunting]
- Get out of my way!
- [grunts]
[panting]
BURNHAM:
Please, just stop.
I know how much you love Moll.
This is not how you help her.
You let me go,
or I will cut through you.
[panting]
Move!
I cannot do that.
I can't do that.
[both grunting]
You made a decoy.
[exhales]
Solid bluff.
I didn't think you had it
in you, Starfleet.
[grunting]
This wasn't supposed to happen.
L'ak!
What the hell did you do to him?
It was an accident.
We got to get him to Discovery.
Here.
Get away from us!
COMPUTER:
Warning, five minutes to impac.
- We're on a collision course
for the aperture.
- What?
The shuttle's gone.
So the Enterprise is
our only way out?
Yeah.
We got to find a way, come on.
Damn it.
I'm here.
You're gonna be okay.
[grunting]
Leave her alone!
Stop! Let me go!
That all you got?
[grunting]
[speaking Breen]
Speak her language.
She deserves to understand
what you're saying.
You carry the genetic code
of the Yod-Thot.
They who rule.
Yet while we campaign
for the throne of the Imperium,
you consort with lesser beings.
And you do so wearing that face.
An insult to your heritage.
This... is Breen.
Then why can we change?
Both faces are part of us.
If we deny half our nature,
we deny it all.
We have evolved
past the need for that form.
Holding it makes you unfocused,
inflexible and weak.
There is only one path
to redemption.
[weapon whirs]
Was fun while it lasted,
green eye.
Erigah.
I know.
Go, now.
Wait. Why didn't you kill him?
He raised me.
[alarm sounding]
Moll, please, go.
Go to Chain territory,
find that colony.
It doesn't matter
what happens to me
as long I know that you're safe.
I asked you to come with me.
I can't.
Not now.
An Erigah is impossible to lift.
They will never stop hunting me.
Us.
They'll be hunting us.
Nothing's impossible, L'ak.
We can do this.
You and me.
[exhales]
Come on, babe.
Let's be happy together.
Please?
Okay.
I love you, Moll.
More than anything.
You know that, right?
No, no, no, no, don't.
Okay? I'll figure this out.
We've made it
through worse before.
We're trapped.
Oh. Nothing's impossible for us.
Okay? I've got this.
I promise.
There should be enough power
left to activate a tractor beam.
Can't save the day
if we can't see.
Nice.
COMPUTER:
Warning, four minutes to impac.
- It's on.
- Here goes nothing.
Lieutenant Christopher,
anything on comms yet?
- Negative, sir. Still trying.
- NAYA: Commander?
There's something happening
at the aperture.
Lieutenant Gallo, enhance it.
Aye, Commander.
Seems to be a... tractor beam?
From the shuttle?
No. Something much larger.
The beam is oscillating,
a repeating pattern.
Three-four-one-four.
Commander Stamets,
Ensign Tal, get in here.
Lieutenant Tilly, you too.
Almost got it, sir,
a way to hold the aperture open.
Tilly rerouted
portions of the EPS grid.
Change of plans.
I need you to hold it open
and make it bigger.
Big enough for a starship.
When you say "big enough
for a starship," do you mean
that Discovery is going in?
No.
Our captain's coming out.
How could you possibly know that
- they're coming out?
- Ballad of Krul.
It doesn't matter.
Can you do it?
That would require
a massive amount of power,
more power than the entire ship
could safely produce.
Well, there's got to be a way.
Come on.
Look, I need ideas, come on!
A cask of Kellerun citrus mash
for whoever lands this, go.
Could we invert
the deflector array
and force the aperture open?
Rerouting energy distribution
systems would take too long.
What if we discharge
the spore reserve?
Hit them with a tachyon pulse?
LINUS:
We should maintain our reserves
in case an emergency jump
is required.
Well, can't we just strap in
and pull power
from gravitational systems?
If they don't reset,
eventually we'll just
- end up floating around.
- Wait a minute.
If we change out
the photon-torpedo payloads
and replace them
with antimatter...
STAMETS:
It would add fuel
to the antimatter reactions
already happening
in the aperture.
And that could generate
the energy we need.
Yes, uh... [stammers]
if we hit it
precisely with a sequential,
hexagonal pattern,
uh, it should stay open
for approximately 60 seconds.
But once it collapses,
it's gone for good.
Why hexagonal?
- Um...
- STAMETS: It doesn't matter.
It'll work.
Citrus mash all around then.
Rhys, coordinate
engineering and munitions,
replace the payloads,
fire on my mark.
Asha, get us into position.
Gallo, lower our shields
so we can catch
that tractor beam.
We're only gonna get
one shot at this.
I trust you'll all
make it count.
- Red alert.
- OTHERS: Aye, Commander.
BOOK:
Tractor beam's holding steady.
No sign of a response yet.
COMPUTER:
60 seconds to impact.
Book, in case we don't make it,
I need to say something.
Come on, don't go there.
No.
You were one of the surprises
in the time cycles.
That's all.
It was nice.
And we were happy.
All right,
let's get that thing open.
Fire!
The vessel's tractor beam has
just made contact with us.
RAYNER:
All right, let's pull them out.
We're locked on.
Route whatever power
isn't keeping us breathing
or held down
to that tractor beam.
Hit it?
Uh... feels weird.
Let's just fly.
Is that the ISS Enterprise?
Gallo, how much time do we have
- to get them out?
- 20 seconds.
♪
RAYNER:
Captain?
BURNHAM:
Burnham to Discovery.
Thanks for the assist.
Anytime.
Great to hear your voice again.
Likewise, Commander.
- [alert beeping]
- Michael?
Sir, the ISS Enterprise
is preparing to fire.
- Captain?
- BURNHAM: We see it.
System shows
it's a Terran warp pod.
Two life signs,
sickbay equipment.
It's got to be
a life-support system.
- It's Moll and L'ak.
- Right.
[console buzzes]
- I can't stop them
from launching.
- Me, either.
Commander, can you grab them?
RAYNER: I'm on it.
Damn it. Too late.
But they left a warp signature,
we'll track it.
Putting out an alert.
We'll find them.
RAYNER:
The Ballad of Krul.
Section Four, verse seven.
Krul calls to his war brother
for rescue
with a repeating drumbeat.
Three taps.
Then four, one, four.
I was impressed.
It was a long shot.
No question.
Great work today.
If it hadn't panned out,
you'd be riding
your own coffin
into the sun right now.
Ah, but I'm not.
I'm right here.
You're telling me
to take the win.
Mm-hmm.
I can do that.
How did it feel being
back in the chair?
Captain's chair is
for the captain.
I'm ordering
Commanders Owosekun and Detmer
to head a team
to fly the Enterprise
back to Fed HQ storage.
Hell of an assignment.
They deserve it.
They do.
Get some rest, Commander.
[piano music playing]
♪
[chuckles softly]
It's a bit of a day, huh?
I feel like I've been through a
gormagander's digestive tract.
Mm.
I guess I'm not the only one?
Thanks for noticing, Doc.
Are you here to take me up
on my offer?
'Cause I'm all ears.
Oh, it's a bit, um...
These experiences I've had.
I mean, I died.
I came back to life.
And then with Jinaal,
I was there.
But I wasn't.
It was weird.
That's as close to a scientific
term as I can get for it.
And now we're on this quest...
...to find the thing that...
created us.
I mean, it's all so big.
And impossible to grasp and...
...part of me
kind of loves that.
I think.
As terrifying as it is.
But Paul...
Oh, hates the unknown.
And we've always been able
to find answers together.
I don't know how to talk
to him about this.
Change is hard.
But it can also be freeing.
I know, it's just...
I'm not sure
what all this will look like.
It sounds like he's not the only
one who hates the unknown.
You should talk
to somebody about that.
[chuckles]
They're not really
that far apart.
The intellectual
and the spiritual.
Both reach for understanding.
Both bring us to new places.
But I didn't say "spiritual."
Yeah...
Hugh, you kind of did.
- [door chimes]
- Come.
Anything on Moll and L'ak yet?
Starfleet has every ship
in the sector on high alert.
But we have this.
Paul is prepping to do
a full chemical analysis...
of this vial.
And then...
...we'll have our next stop.
You ever wonder
why there's always a lesson
with these clues?
Like with the itronok.
Do you value life-forms
different than your own?
And with the necropolis planet.
Importance of cultural context.
See, the scientist who left that
on the Enterprise must've
known the history of that ship.
Ha.
She did.
She was Terran.
The ship's junior
science officer, Dr. Cho.
So I had Zora look up
the crew names on the manifest.
Guess what?
Most of them ended up
in Federation databases.
So they did make it.
Mm-hmm.
Started new lives
in our universe.
Yeah.
Dr. Cho even ended up
joining Starfleet.
She become a branch admiral.
After that, her records just...
vanish.
Ah, well, Jinaal did say
he erased all evidence
of their group.
Mm-hmm, well, nearly all.
They had hope.
And they found freedom.
Despite impossible odds.
Maybe that's why Dr. Cho
went back and left
the clue on that ship.
Maybe that's our lesson here.
That like them...
...maybe we can shape
our own futures, too.
[chuckles softly]
[Burnham exhales]
What I said earlier,
about how we used to be happy...
Oh, no, no, no, it's fine.
We were, weren't we?
[comms chime]
STAMETS:
Captain, we are ready
for the vial.
On our way.
So...
what do you think happens
when we finally
put this thing together?
I don't know.
But I can't wait to find out.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org